Many of you have electronic devices such as cell phones, smartphones, tablets, and laptops. Even though you have not yet been selected as a juror, there are some strict rules that you must follow about electronic devices.  

When you are called to a courtroom, the judge will give you specific instructions on the use of electronic devices. These rules are so important that the judge may tell you that you must turn off your cell phone or other electronic devices completely or that you cannot have your cell phone or electronic devices in the courtroom. If someone needs to contact you in case of an emergency, the judge will provide you with a phone number where you can receive messages.  
  
If the trial judge allows you to keep your cell phones, computers, or other electronic devices, you cannot use them to take photographs, video recordings, or audio recordings of the proceedings in the courtroom or your fellow jurors. You must not use them to search the Internet or to find out anything related to any cases in the courthouse. 

Why is this restriction imposed? This restriction is imposed because jurors must decide the case without distraction and only on the evidence presented in the courtroom. I know that, for some of you, these restrictions affect your normal daily activities and may require a change in the way you are used to communicating and perhaps even in the way you are used to learning.

If you investigate, research, or make inquiries on your own, the trial judge has no way to make sure that the information you obtain is proper for the case. The parties likewise have no opportunity to dispute or challenge the accuracy of what you find. Any independent investigation by a juror unfairly and improperly prevents the parties from having that opportunity our judicial system promises.

Between now and when you have been discharged from jury duty by the judge, you must not discuss any information about your jury service with anyone, including friends, co-workers, and family members. You may tell those who need to know where you are that you have been called for jury duty. If you are picked for a jury, you may tell people that you have been picked for a jury and how long the case may take. However, you must not give anyone any information about the case itself or the people involved in the case. You must also warn people not to try to say anything to you or write to you about your jury service or the case. This includes face-to-face, phone or computer communications. 
I want to stress that you must not use electronic devices or computers to talk about this case, including tweeting, texting, blogging, e-mailing, posting information on a website or chat room, or any other means at all. Do not send or accept any messages, including e-mail and text messages, about your jury service. You must not disclose your thoughts about your jury service or ask for advice on how to decide any case.  
The judge will tell you when you are released from this instruction.  Remember, these rules are designed to guarantee a fair trial. It is important that you understand the rules as well as the impact on our system of justice if you fail to follow them. If it is determined that any one of you has violated this rule, and conducted any type of independent research or investigation, it may result in a mistrial. A mistrial would require the case to be tried again at great expense to the parties and the judicial system. If you violate these rules, you may be held in contempt of court, and face sanctions, such as serving time in jail, paying a fine or both. All of us are depending on you to follow these rules, so that there will be a fair and lawful resolution of every case.
